[THEME MUSIC]
>>THERESA CHEUNG:
Dreams are a portal.
They're the first step
to awakening people
to this incredible world
of mind, body, spirit.
Nothing is random.
Your dreaming mind is
super, super clever.
I have a theory that
the reason we sleep
is because we urgently
need to dream.
Our dreams are a nocturnal
therapist and far cheaper
than a real one.
The theory of relativity,
the speed of light,
all inspired by a dream, the
periodic table, a dream, even
Google.
And it's become a creativity
hack within Hollywood
now, dreamwork.
When we have a nightmare, it's
kind of your dreaming mind
sending tough love.
I think all dreams have a
hint about a potential future
there for you.
All the things that you
watched on television
and all the things that
happened in your day,
why does your dreaming mind
hone in on one particular thing?
>>REGINA MEREDITH:
Everyone dreams,
though many don't
know that because they
can't remember their dreams.
Hopefully, after
this conversation,
you will begin to use your
dreams for what they really
are intended-- to help us
refine our waking life.
Theresa Cheung is
here with us today
from London to share a wealth
of her user-friendly information
on dreaming from her books
"Night Vision" and "The Dream
Dictionary."
And this is-- oh,
this is a tome.
And you say this is 1/3--
>>CHEUNG: Yeah.
>>REGINA: --of the
weight it started out as.
Oh my god.
You're a productive lady.
Welcome, Theresa.
>>CHEUNG: Who says
dreams don't come true
because I have actually
dreamed that this would happen?
>>REGINA: That you'd be here?
>>CHEUNG: Yeah, precognitive
element, and here I am.
I'm doing my reality
checks, counting my fingers,
pinching myself.
>>REGINA: Here in America
at Gaia on set together.
>>CHEUNG: I'm so
excited, Regina.
Thank you for the opportunity.
>>REGINA: Oh, this is wonderful.
And I have to say, I read
the book "Night Vision,"
and compiled a lot of
these notes based on it.
And, oh my god, I've been
telling everyone about it
because, not only is it just
a really good, user-friendly,
practical, let's get right
to it and without bogging us
down with too much
science, but just enough,
but it's stunningly beautiful.
Who's the artist that
illustrated that?
>>CHEUNG: Léa Chassagne.
And as I said,
there's a funny story
because she's a
beautiful French artist.
But when I first saw
all the illustrations,
there were so much erotic
element, and nipples,
and everything that we had
to tone that down a bit.
But people do dream
with their clothes on.
>>REGINA: Yeah, you did.
Yes, people do dream
with their clothes on.
Well, you toned down a
little bit of the French.
There's still beautiful nude
scenes and other scenes,
but it's the artistry, and
the color, and the whimsy.
It takes you into dream
world just looking
at the pictures of dream world.
So I just want to
say, well done.
What a
beautifully-produced book.
>>CHEUNG: Thank you.
Thanks.
>>REGINA: Let's go into
dreaming a little bit,
and you as a little kid, and why
your dharma really became about
dreaming, for the most part--
I mean, look at what you've
done here, all these books
you've written--
but also paranormal.
So tell us a little bit
about the little Theresa.
>>CHEUNG: The little Theresa was
born into a family of psychics
and spiritualists, so it
was commonplace for me
every morning to dream
decode with my family.
It was commonplace to
go to meetings where
people spoke to dead people.
It was commonplace to consult
astrology charts, numerology.
And so I just grew up in that
kind of traveling environment
where it was the norm that
the invisible world was real.
However, I was home
educated as well.
And somehow-- I don't know.
Something's looking out for me--
I managed to get a place
at King's College Cambridge
University to read
theology and religion.
And then, of course, when I
went into that heavy academic
environment, I realized that not
everybody has the same trusting
face and faith that there
is an invisible world.
>>REGINA: Right.
>>CHEUNG: So I really went
through a coming of age where I
was forced to look
at all my beliefs,
analyze them academically,
scientifically
because that's the environment
I was in at Cambridge,
and to understand--
try to understand my
childhood, really,
and all these dreams
I'd had, and intuitions.
And that led to my career of
writing close to 100 books
in this area, where I try to
bring in the academic as well
as the scientific.
>>REGINA: You do.
You do a wonderful
job blending it
without bogging the viewer
down because everyone
has different proclivities
in terms of their attractions
to these subjects.
Some really want to drill
down into the evidence
and science behind it.
Others want the
experience of it.
And you, I thought, blended
it really beautifully.
And it's true that
the art does serve
as a bridge between these two.
So you guys got the
perfect formula on this.
I love it.
>>CHEUNG: That's why
footnotes are great.
You just do a
little footnote, so
if people want to go further to
find the research behind it--
>>REGINA: Absolutely.
>>CHEUNG: --they
can follow that way.
But then they can still have the
narrative thread in the book.
>>REGINA: Exactly.
And you said you've
written over 100 books.
That means, to me, do
you get any REM sleep?
[LAUGHTER]
>>CHEUNG: It's just
basically what I do.
It's become who I am.
I don't know any other way.
I think I was born into
that family for a reason.
I went to Cambridge
for a reason.
And it's to kind of
mainstream these ideas
about mind, body, and spirit.
And I'm quite interesting
because I wouldn't
say that I'm psychic myself
or have mediumistic abilities,
although I know and love
many people who have those.
I think my mission has been to
research it, try and understand
how this can be possible, to
look at the science behind it,
and to then present
the evidence to people
to make their own mind up.
And I do that often by
collecting stories, so
many people because I've
been around so long.
I'm sure somebody's got a
Theresa Cheung book somewhere.
>>REGINA: You don't look like
you've been around that long.
But you have by evidence of
all these books you've written.
>>CHEUNG: Yes.
>>REGINA: Absolutely.
OK, so you wrote
something in this book,
and I picked up on this.
And I thought we'd just
start with a little touch.
It says the more intensively
we dream eyes shut,
the more vibrant our
lives are while eyes open.
Now, what does that--
what why is that?
What does that mean?
>>CHEUNG: Well, we
don't actually sleep.
We think we do, but
our brains remain awake
in that dream state.
And our waking and our dream
life are intimately connected.
The one reflects the other.
So how you behave
in your waking life
is going to be reflected
in your dreams,
and your dreams will
impact your waking life.
So if you're having really
vivid, vibrant, insightful
dreams, that's going to have a
knock-on effect in your waking
life.
So what I'm trying to say
is sometimes the best place
to start is the inside out.
Start with your dream life.
Get this really exciting,
adventurous dream world,
and you will notice
in your waking life
that your confidence soars,
your observational skills
sore, everything.
You become more fascinated
by the person you are.
You realize that there's
more to you than the material
because that's what dreams are.
Where do we go, this magical
playground every night?
Where do we go?
Science still doesn't
know for sure.
>>REGINA: That is true.
Now you talk about
this a lot, and it just
struck me to bring this
up because you wonder--
in fact, I'm going
to ask you, so you
can-- if you're allowed to speak
about it-- so you were recently
on Russell Brand's show.
A couple of years ago, you
were on Russell Brand's show.
And that was quite
a trip for you
to go to his estate
and all of that.
But what I'm
wondering is here you
have someone like Russell, who's
so intense, also so funny, so
private, so boom,
so much of him.
What kind of dreams
does Russell have?
>>CHEUNG: Well, we had a
segment about dreams actually
on his podcast "Under
the Skin," and he
said he only has
nightmares, which
I found very, very revealing.
>>REGINA: That's
the next question
I was going to ask you.
This is perfect.
Tell me about that.
>>CHEUNG: Well, I mean,
nightmares or Russell
Brand because there's stories?
>>REGINA: Both.
>>CHEUNG: Both.
Well, Russell Brand,
this was, really,
one of my first major
celebrity interviews.
I did it a couple of years
ago because of the explosion
of interest in dreaming that
the pandemic has unleashed
because so many people
were having vivid dreams
during the lockdown.
But this was just before
the lockdown, and Russell--
something about my book--
I'd written a book with
a neuroscientist called
"The Premonition Code," which
is about precognitive dreaming.
It piqued his interest.
I live fairly close
to him in the UK.
Off I went to his studio.
Met this amazing
celebrity, and then we're
suddenly in the studio.
And it's a very
humorous interview
actually because
he's kind of going
at it from the science and
the skeptical point of view.
I'm sort of saying,
well, I believe,
in quoting Patrick Swayze
from "Ghost," I have no idea.
And by the end of the
interview, we actually
really are on the same page.
It's a lovely journey
of an interview.
But the section about
dreams, we talk about it,
and he says he doesn't like
dreaming because he only
has nightmares.
So I'll go into nightmares.
Nightmares are
transformative gifts
because when we
have a nightmare,
it's kind of your dreaming
mind sending tough love
because the gentle other
non-nightmare dreams haven't
got through.
The message hasn't
got through, so they
need to send you shocking
content to wake you up.
>>REGINA: Oh, it's sort of
like a-- many people I've
interviewed had to have
a near-death experience,
get into a car
accident or something,
to awaken their abilities
or to recognize them.
So this is the version of that
at night where you're dreaming.
Interesting.
>>CHEUNG: I say in my books.
Our dreams are a nocturnal
therapist and far cheaper
than a real one.
Every night we have this
self-healing process going on,
where our dreaming
mind is sending us,
through language of symbols
and metaphors, images for us
to brainstorm about ways to
improve, and heal, and move
forward in our waking life.
If only we realize
the priceless gift
that we've got there
every single night,
and nightmares are important
because we meet our shadow
side.
>>REGINA: Interesting.
>>CHEUNG: And our shadow
side is very important
because most of us
in our waking life
like to repress or deny that.
However, just as
there's day and night,
there's shadow and
light within us all.
And we have to face
that, understand it,
love it, and then
in our waking life,
know that the potential to be
toxic and negative is within us
but have the moral courage to
choose to do the right thing.
It's that wonderful quote
about that story about the two
wolves within us, one that's
compassionate, and loving,
and kind and the other
that is toxic and negative.
And the little boy asks the
elder of the tribe, well,
which wolf wins this battle?
And the elder says, well,
the one you choose to feed.
So nightmares are
showing us that side,
saying you've got it within
you so that when you wake up,
choose the right thing.
That's real moral courage.
>>REGINA: That's
the best explanation
I've ever heard about
it because when I do
think of that corollary
of daytime hours--
and so many people
I've interviewed here
have gone through these
really rough experiences--
and then I woke up
and realized what
I'm supposed to do
and to see that that's
accessible to everyone every
day if they do have nightmares.
And this is on kind
of a sliding scale.
There are nightmares, and then
there are nightmares, you know?
>>CHEUNG: And nightmares,
it's safe as well
because, obviously,
with our shadow side,
we can't go around cheating,
and lying, and murdering,
and being serial
killers in our--
you've got to
respect other people.
But we can safely role play,
get it all out of our system.
It's very cathartic.
In the nightmare, you can be the
most toxic version of yourself,
understand it, know
that-- and also
kind of try to understand
why it's there.
And I call it the golden shadow,
where you heal and embrace
that part of you as well,
because sometimes our shadow
side does force us
to grow and evolve
because if we're always
blissful and always harmonious,
growth doesn't tend
to happen there.
Sometimes we need
to get comfortable
being uncomfortable because
that makes us evolve.
And I think from
all the research
I've done, that the meaning
of our lives is to evolve.
>>REGINA: I agree with you.
It is.
And everyone's on a
different trajectory,
and it takes a different
stimuli for each person
to be able to accomplish
that, and the willingness
to embrace it, take it
on, and learn from it.
So often, these gifts
are just floating by,
and we don't see them.
>>CHEUNG: Yes.
>>REGINA: So I was going
to tell you something funny
because it's on my mind.
It's a dream I had just
before waking up this morning.
And it was-- and I would love
for you to play with it a bit
because I think it
can be interpreted
a couple of different ways,
right, in terms of the psyche.
So I'll make it
brief, but we have
a birth coming in our
family, a new little nephew.
My sister's child,
the son, and his wife
are having a baby soon,
so that must have been
what was in the background.
So the baby's here,
and the baby's
being held by his grandfather.
And his grandfather has this
spiky, punky gray hair, right?
And the baby comes out with
spiky, punky gray hair.
So I'm looking at the little
baby and thinking, wow,
I don't think I've ever seen
a full head of gray hair
on a newborn.
It was very funny.
But then I realized, because
I had the dream again,
I thought I woke up and was
telling my sister the dream,
but I had the dream again.
Said you've got to know
this little baby is for him.
It's for your husband.
It's for Norbert.
This is his love bond
is this new baby coming.
And so I did call my sister
when I actually woke up,
and she's like, oh
my god, I love this.
So on that level, that can be
a couple of different things.
>>CHEUNG: It can.
There's so much to unpick there.
Thank you, Regina.
>>REGINA: Don't spend too much
time on it because we have
way--
many more dreams to go to.
>>CHEUNG: But I'm so excited.
I mean, 99% of our
dreams, over 99%,
are symbolic, metaphorical,
where our dreaming mind
is picking up on things in our
waking life that we've missed
and then, in our dreams, shows
us in that symbolic language
that dreams love.
Our dreaming mind is
an artist, a visionary.
It speaks like a poet.
We can talk more about that.
But there is a tiny
percentage of dreams--
and I've written many
books about this--
that are kind of paranormal.
And this dream could
well fall into that.
You woke up with a strong
sense that you were dreaming
on behalf of someone else.
>>REGINA: Yes, it
seemed very clear.
>>CHEUNG: Well, it makes sense
because in your waking life,
you are like an oracle.
You probably do a lot on
behalf of other people.
You're very highly intuitive.
You couldn't do what
you're doing so well
without that intuitive ability.
So of course, as I say, our
waking and our sleeping life
are connected.
In your dreams,
your consciousness,
your spirit, soul,
whatever you want to call,
is continuing to work.
You're working in your dreams.
We call them sleepworker dreams.
And I find them very beautiful.
And that is a message
for your loved
one about this baby bringing
wisdom, bringing growth.
The gray hair is
wisdom and growth.
I mean, you could
also look at it
personally because there
is a theory of dreams
that every time you
dream like that movie
"Inception," when everybody--
>>REGINA: Amazing dream.
I love that.
I mean, amazing film.
>>CHEUNG: --looks at the
dreamer that you are dreaming
about aspects of yourself.
And I would say, in your
work, that you are presenting
ancient, timeless wisdom and
constantly reinventing it
in a new way.
>>REGINA: Baby with gray hair.
>>CHEUNG: Yeah.
>>REGINA: Yeah,
so that would-- it
sounds like both are very
well true in that one.
And for my version
of a nightmare,
and it is when I went
up to say something
to the grandpa who
was guardedly holding
the little gray-haired baby,
he said something snippy.
That's about as bad
as my dreams get.
I had my feelings hurt a little.
[LAUGHTER]
That's a nightmare for me.
>>CHEUNG: Oh, so no
serial killer nightmares.
>>REGINA: No.
No.
>>CHEUNG: No zombies
or vampires--
>>REGINA: Somebody
saying something snippy,
and it's like, oh.
>>CHEUNG: --or stuck
in mud, suffocating.
>>REGINA: No.
No.
>>CHEUNG: These are top dreams.
>>REGINA: None of that.
Just joking, but that is true.
So that's interesting.
So we can take these,
and we can look
at different elements
depending because many
of the people in this
audience are very intuitive,
are probably also dreaming
on behalf of others.
So that's why it's nice
to be able to break it
down so beautifully both ways.
>>CHEUNG: Absolutely.
The ancient Greek oracles
would dream incubation,
where people would go
with their problems,
and then the oracle's there.
Maybe in another life
that was what you--
you would dream on it.
And I do know
actually some people
who dream on behalf
of other people.
That's what they do.
I think it's utterly
beautiful, and I
get-- people write
to me all the time,
and I get so many
stories about people
who have dreamed of being at
the passing of a loved one when
they didn't know that
loved one had departed.
>>REGINA: Yes.
>>CHEUNG: Incredible data, that.
>>REGINA: Yes, they're there.
They're a witness.
>>CHEUNG: How, in spirit,
holding their hand to help them
over the--
>>REGINA: That's beautiful.
>>CHEUNG: --bridge to the other
side, whatever that may be.
>>REGINA: You alluded to
something a little bit ago.
And I'd like to
pick back up on it,
and that is that
dreaming really started
coming to the forefront
more during the pandemic.
What I'm curious about is
because so much fear was
perpetuated during waking
hours during the pandemic,
how did that seem to affect
the content or quality of dream
time for people?
>>CHEUNG: Well,
basically, I mean,
people got more sleep if
they were on furlough,
so their mornings were
slower, giving more time
for dream recall.
They also probably got more
REM, rapid eye movement,
stage sleep.
So that's the rational reason.
But the spiritual,
psychological reason
is that dreams were
doing what they
do best, which is trying to
help, and heal us, and show us
that this was an unprecedented
opportunity for us to fall
in love with our inner
world, our inner psychic.
>>REGINA: Very true.
>>CHEUNG: And that was why this
unleashing of dreams happen.
And I am testament to that.
As I said, I've been
writing about dream decoding
and the power of our
night vision for decades.
But it's only been in the
last two to three years
that I have suddenly--
I mean, I've had my
readership and my following,
but I've gone on
mainstream platforms,
as I say, all over the world,
including the likes of Capital
Radio, to dream decode for
celebrities because everybody
is having these dreams.
And I hope, as we move
away from the pandemic,
that we don't lose
our connection
to our dreaming mind.
>>REGINA: I hope not.
But maybe this
was a breakthrough
in terms of mass
consciousness because you also
told me off camera that
you're now showing on--
did you say ITV?
>>CHEUNG: ITV this morning.
Viewer call-ins.
>>REGINA: ITV.
Yes.
So you hear--
>>CHEUNG: Never.
>>REGINA: Yes.
And this is mainstream TV.
>>CHEUNG: Yes.
>>REGINA: And they have you on
decoding dreams and paranormal
phenomena for the public.
Now that's a big step to
acknowledge this and feed
that part of their
audience on mainstream.
>>CHEUNG: I've learned over
the years that going on there
talking about psychic
animals or life after death,
mainstream can't go
there, especially the UK,
which is very skeptical--
>>REGINA: Yes, very.
>>CHEUNG: --the BBC.
However, when it's dreaming,
it's like they don't mind.
But what they don't realize
when I'm going on there dream
decoding, I'm actually
talking about spirituality,
that invisible world.
And I've learned now that's
the way forward for me,
to go on there and
dream decode for really
big celebrities over in the
UK that I've done before.
>>REGINA: Because
it's OK to dream.
>>CHEUNG: It's OK
because we all dream.
>>REGINA: Right.
>>CHEUNG: And even the
most skeptical person still
has had a weird dream that they
don't know what the meaning is,
and they want me to tell them
and help them understand.
And then I explain to them it's
a bit like nocturnal therapy.
Where is this invisible
world that we go to?
Isn't it fun dreaming?
It's like all these light
bulbs are going off.
And I love it because
dreams are a portal.
They're the first step
to awakening people
to this incredible world of
mind, body, spirit out there.
And long may it continue.
And I must say that the
Millennial generation
are particularly interested
in their dreaming.
>>REGINA: Oh, really?
>>CHEUNG: It seems
a lot of them,
the pandemic has done
that, that all the things
they used to rely on,
like their social media
following, or the
career, or money,
or looks to give
them sustenance, that
clearly doesn't in
times like that when
your health is threatened.
But they found sustenance
through understanding
their dreaming
life is important.
>>REGINA: And you know
this because more of them
started reaching out to you.
>>CHEUNG: Yes.
Well, books like "Night
Vision," which what I've
done for the younger--
>>REGINA: Oh, I love it.
>>CHEUNG: --people
who are new to this--
>>REGINA: Yes, that's
what I loved about it.
I thought it was so
beautiful, especially,
like you say, for
people who have just
started awakening to the notion
they should pay attention.
>>CHEUNG: Yeah, and
there's an unparalleled
interested in astrology
at the moment as well.
I've done astrological profiles
for all the royal family
in the UK, with major
national newspapers, including
our prime minister and the
leader of the opposition.
And can you believe that
a national newspaper
has asked me to give them a
psychological profile based
on date of birth?
>>REGINA: I love it.
[LAUGHS] I love it.
>>CHEUNG: This is
not a-- but I wrote
my "Encyclopedia of
Birthdays" again 20 years ago,
and they're all
being reissued now.
And so I'm just mentioning
this, not to pick myself up
in any way--
I just feel I'm a
servant of these topics--
but to show the interest
is unprecedented.
>>REGINA: Interest is now
really starting to rise.
That's fabulous.
That's good news.
I find that very uplifting.
OK, let's get into
a couple of things
because I want to
get into some dreams,
and what certain dreams
mean, and all that.
But let's talk about some of
the more biological effects
like what REM does for
the being, for the body
and also what happens
when you're binging
on television on a screen with
blue light till late at night
because a lot of people
started that during COVID too.
>>CHEUNG: Yes.
Yes.
Netflix, et cetera, they
got a boom, didn't it?
We were all watching major--
binging on Netflix.
Your dreaming mind
will seize on things
in the day that have intense
emotional content to repackage
them for you at night.
However, you've got to
think of all the things
that you watched on television
and all the things that
happened in your day.
Why does your dreaming mind
hone in on one particular thing?
There are millions of
things it could choose.
So of course, what we
watch on television
is going to impact
our dream life.
However, you've got to realize
that you your dreaming mind,
which is very clever,
could choose anything.
It chooses that for a reason.
And I actually encourage
watching fantasy and--
but not two hours before you go
to sleep because that can have
a negative effect on your sleep
because you are practicing
immersing yourself in
an alternative reality,
and that's what happens in
dreaming because I've also
found that there is
a strong connection
between vivid
dreaming and gamers.
The gaming community lucid--
>>REGINA: Lucid dream?
A lot of them lucid dreamers?
>>CHEUNG: Xbox,
actually, have been
tapping into the lucid
dreams of their gamers
to fuel dream content,
and they've actually got
a platform, Power Your Dreams.
Incredible.
The next Xbox generation of
Xbox games are dream-inspired.
>>REGINA: Wow.
>>CHEUNG: And that can go
with the amount of dreams that
are now-- even in
Hollywood, it's
happened with "The
Power of the Dog."
I don't know if you know
that potential Oscar winner.
>>REGINA: Yes, I know the film.
>>CHEUNG: Yes.
>>REGINA: But what is--
>>CHEUNG: Well, they
had a dreamworker on
set to help Benedict
Cumberbatch and Kirsten Dunst
get into character and
meet their shadow side.
>>REGINA: Oh, interesting.
>>CHEUNG: Jane Campion is
very into her dreams, as many,
like Christopher
Nolan, James Cameron.
They all are very--
they use their dreams as fuel
to inspire their creativity,
and it's become a creativity
hack within Hollywood now,
dreamwork, to help
you embrace shadow
aspects of your character which
you're maybe not expressing.
Fascinating.
They had a dream decoder on set.
I think a lady called
Kim Gillingham.
She's very much in demand
now for Hollywood directors.
Wow.
I was also contacted by a
perfume company, Serge Lutens
perfume company.
Serge Lutens, who's a
visionary director in France,
he had a dream where he
met the femme fatale,
and it inspired him
to create a perfume
based on women who dream.
Unbelievable.
>>REGINA: This is fascinating.
I had no idea all of
this was going on.
>>CHEUNG: And I was
advising-- helping them
with their ad campaign
to tell them how
to recreate a dream scenario.
Again, just shows
what is happening.
Movies, perfume-- companies
have been brought during COVID
especially-- big
clothing companies--
I won't mention, but they're
major brands-- cosmetic brands,
skincare brands--
to talk to the staff about
dream decoding so then
they can talk to their
clients about their dreams
to have a more intimate
relationship with their clients
and help them get the right
skincare or beauty product.
>>REGINA: That's
absolutely fascinating.
When I listen to
it-- well, we can
go a lot of directions on that.
But what I want to do is go
back for a moment to what you
were talking about when
all of this information
starts pouring through
your dream time,
and there's a particular
element that you've picked up
on during the day or in
something you've watched,
and we tend to think,
oh, that's random.
You're saying
quite the opposite.
That's not remotely
random that your brain
picked that particular item.
>>CHEUNG: Nothing is random.
Your dreaming mind is
super, super clever.
But the trouble is
most people give up
because it doesn't make sense.
>>REGINA: Right.
>>CHEUNG: So then I
encourage them, go and read--
>>REGINA: They can't
find a context for it.
>>CHEUNG: Go and read
Coleridge's "Kubla Khan."
"In Xanadu did Kubla Khan, a
stately pleasure dome decree,
where--" I know that backwards.
I used it so many times.
Go and read poetry that doesn't
make sense on first reading.
You have to unpick it.
We have to go back to school.
Like in your
literature classes, you
were taught about
pathetic fallacy.
You were taught about
symbols, metaphors, puns.
The dreaming mind loves puns.
And what it's encouraging you
to do is to become more creative
and to brainstorm
around a symbol.
What are the associations?
Again, I compare it
to a work of art.
There are some
great works of art
that you can stand and gaze
in awe at because there's
so much meaning--
>>REGINA: Right.
>>CHEUNG: --because
you can say, well,
why isn't the dreaming
mind more obvious?
Because a picture, and
a poem, and a symbol
says so much more for you
than just words ever can.
And it wants you to see
that this is so much bigger.
There's so many more
expansive connections for you.
It wants you to think
like a poet, a visionary.
That's what it wants you to do.
So go to an art gallery, read
poetry, watch amazing movies.
Of course, big shout out
for "Inception," my favorite
movie--
>>REGINA: Yes, me too.
Big shout.
>>CHEUNG: --because they show
you the potential and they
get--
>>REGINA: The layers,
the dimensions of dream.
>>CHEUNG: And the symbolic
language it speaks in.
>>REGINA: Yes, it's beautiful.
OK, now you just
triggered something in me.
So you have all
these people coming
to you who are looking
at how to begin
utilizing dreams in order, for
example, to sell their product.
Why can't that same faculty
be used to manipulate people
from other places?
>>CHEUNG: Well,
I would hope not.
I hope that people would
do it with integrity.
But you've got to
understand, I--
one of the things when
I'm teaching companies
or whatever how to help with
dream decoding for clients
is to say you've always
got to say the best
person to interpret your
dreams is always you.
It's personal.
I'll give you example.
If I dream of a
dog, I love dogs.
It's a beautiful loving symbol.
However, if somebody had
an unfortunate experience
with a dog, although,
in my dream dictionary
it will say very positive
things about dogs--
unconditional love,
companionship-- however,
if you have had
personal association
with a dog that
is unpleasant, it
will have a very
different meaning.
>>REGINA: Exactly.
>>CHEUNG: So always go with
your own personal gut instinct
first about a symbol.
My dream dictionaries,
et cetera,
are the universal
common ways that we
think of these symbols
that kick start--
>>REGINA: But you
still suggest you
have to go in and see what
that feels like for you.
>>CHEUNG: But a lot of us have
lost touch with the ability
to think symbolically.
We know in ancient times--
we go right back to time,
everything was symbolic.
We thought in that deep--
nothing was on the surface.
It was always
underneath the surface.
We've lost that ability
over time to-- we
take things so
much at face value.
We don't look for the
layers underneath.
So my dream dictionaries
are basically
to kick start that
part of your brain,
that intuitive, brainstorming,
creative part, which
is where all great innovation
and discovery in the world
begins.
Did you know that
many scientists--
Einstein was a
very vivid dreamer.
The theory of relativity--
>>REGINA: Yes.
>>CHEUNG: --speed of light,
all inspired by a dream.
The periodic table, a dream.
Even Google was
inspired by a dream.
Now all our lives have
been changed by Google.
Larry Page was at
Stanford University
not knowing quite what
to do with his life.
He felt like he didn't fit in.
He was passionate
about computers.
He had a lot lying
around his room.
He went to bed
one night and then
had a dream that
all the information
from these computers could
be downloaded on one page.
He got up at 2:00
or 3:00 AM, which
I say is a very sacred time--
I can explain that--
did some math.
This could be possible.
Dropped out of Stanford.
Two years later created Google.
Like it or loathe it, Google
has changed our world.
And that started with a dream.
>>REGINA: Interesting.
Let's talk about the
2:00 to 3:00 AM thing.
>>CHEUNG: Yes.
Sacred.
If you wake up at 2:00
and 3:00 AM, most people--
I get so frustrated because
I see people who hate,
feel wrong.
They force themselves to go
to sleep, or they're anxious.
Don't celebrate it.
Your dreaming mind
has woken you up
because something
in your dream is
so important it wants you to
write it down and reflect.
Now I spent time--
before university,
actually, I wanted to go--
I wanted to be the
first female vicar.
I was very deep into
that, and I spent time
considering my options.
And I know that
the call to prayer
is early, is
between two and six.
It's a very sacred time.
And if you look at some of the
great innovators in the world,
most of their discoveries
and their eureka moments
are very in those
sacred early times.
>>REGINA: So if you wake up--
>>CHEUNG: Write it down.
>>REGINA: --and you don't
know why at 2:00, 3:00,
4:00 in the morning, don't
beat yourself up, squeeze
your eyes shut, and say, I have
to go back to sleep right away.
>>CHEUNG: Write it down--
>>REGINA: Maybe take
a moment and say--
>>CHEUNG: --what's on your mind.
Write it down.
>>REGINA: --what was going on?
>>CHEUNG: Just journal away.
And it may change the world,
or it may change your life.
Both, to me, are
just as important.
Your life is just--
>>REGINA: The problem
for a lot of people,
they're in a relationship.
And you think, how do I do this?
I'm going to wake
my partner up if I
turn the light on and do this.
And that's a big one for
when it comes to journaling.
>>CHEUNG: That is a big one.
I agree.
It is a big one.
You've got to be respectful,
but I think creep out of bed
and go to the
bathroom, sit down.
>>REGINA: So keep your
journal next to the toilet.
[LAUGHTER]
OK, that's a good solution.
>>CHEUNG: Yeah,
and write it down
because you will be surprised
if you keep a journal.
I mean, Oscar Wilde
once said, I always
must have something sensational
to read on the train
so I bring my diary.
I say bring your dream diary
because you will see over time,
the dream diary is
commenting on your life.
It's like this avatar,
this other world,
that is commenting on
your everyday life.
It's utterly fascinating.
You will see precognitive
elements in your dreams.
You will see that
sense of deja vu.
I dreamt this.
You will see marvelous
symbols giving you
insight that can help you
move forward with your life.
You will see your dreaming
mind constantly trying
to guide, and inspire,
and enlighten you.
It's incredible, but you've
got to stick with it.
There's no point just doing one.
>>REGINA: Well, you just give
us a very, very, very practical
solution.
If you're in partnership,
keep your journal
next to the toilet,
somewhere where
you can go and not
disturb the other person
with light at night.
I'm serious.
That's an excellent idea because
I wake up and think, oh--
>>CHEUNG: Can't wake him.
>>REGINA: --I want
to write this down,
and then I go back
to sleep and forget.
OK.
>>CHEUNG: You will.
You must write it
down immediately
because the dreaming
mind comes--
the images in the
dream mind come
from the world of the
unconscious, which is very
subtle, intuition and subtle.
And it cannot compete
with rational reason ego,
which is ruled during-- that's
why dreams are so beautiful
because they're what your
intuition notices in the day
but your ego, or your reason,
or your logic just squash.
>>REGINA: Right.
Absolutely.
Let's go to deja vu.
You just brought it up a moment
ago because that is, I think,
a fascinating subject and
also much misunderstood
because sometimes
you're simply--
you've been there already.
You're practicing.
Talk about the
implications of deja vu.
>>CHEUNG: Oh, the
implications are astonishing.
I truly believe now, in all
this research I've done--
I mean, I started
way back in 2000,
the psychological
element of dreams,
and I went to the spiritual.
And now I'm thinking all dreams
have a precognitive element.
We just haven't
seen them play out
because when we write them down,
the future hasn't happened yet
for us in real time,
so we don't know.
So pay attention.
I think all dreams have a
hint about a potential future
there for you that plays out.
And I think that happens every
single night in your dreams,
that you have an inkling
of a potential future.
And that is so exciting.
>>REGINA: And sometimes
people do gather together,
and you do start practicing
things that you do
want to do in dream time.
>>CHEUNG: Yes.
Yes, you do.
>>REGINA: And that
practice, once it happens,
I've already been here,
and I've already-- you
have already been there.
You have already done it.
>>CHEUNG: Well, it shows that
there's a part of us, as I say,
call it consciousness,
spirit, or soul,
that exists independent
of our brain and our body.
Something has an awareness of
our future or our greater self.
Again, it's looking out for us.
It's giving us hints and tips.
And as I said, I
did a book called
"The Premonition
Code," where we looked
into the physics of time.
Scientists don't know
what sleep or dreams are.
They don't know
what time is either.
There are all these experiments
showing that the future can
influence the past.
The past can
influence the future.
It is so fascinating.
But in our dream world,
I think it's a doorway.
It's the entry point
to this spiritual world
and this timelessness because
when you go into the dream,
time and space
doesn't exist anymore.
>>REGINA: Right.
It can seem like you've had an
entire dramatic play play out,
and it's been a few seconds.
>>CHEUNG: Yeah, and that's
why afterlife dreams
can be very healing.
And especially, again, to
reference the pandemic,
a lot of people had dreams of
meeting departed loved ones,
and these dreams
were very healing.
There is research to
show that in around 90%
of cases, people who have an
afterlife dream, that means
that they have a
conversation in their dreams
with someone who's departed,
actually deal better
with the grieving process.
Is it an afterlife sign?
I don't know.
I don't know all the answers.
Potentially, it could be.
>>REGINA: Yes.
And with this audience, they'd
be very comfortable with that.
OK, you're bringing
to mind something I
hadn't planned on bringing up.
It just popped in.
A friend of mine, who
is also a very talented,
very adept channeler-- and I
don't use that word lightly--
a real one, very sensitive
and dreams a lot too--
so we all get together
with this group of people
through this strange
situation-- it
all came together
at the last minute--
and all end up with this
strange man on a vision quest.
No one planned it.
It just happened.
This is in real life.
We get to her son's house.
And she's saying, well, maybe
our son will let us stay there.
My son will let us stay there.
So we go and stay there.
And the leader of
the pack is kind
of taking advantage, eating
the food in the refrigerator
and really making a
nuisance of himself.
And so she kept
apologizing to her son.
This is the interesting part.
I am so sorry we did
this to you again.
And he said, what are
you talking about?
She said, well, the last time
I brought all these people.
I am so sorry we did
this to you again.
I'll never do this again.
And he said, mom, you've
never done this before.
So later, she goes, and
she's talking to her guide.
We're talking to her guide.
They said, well, you
have, but you all
got together and practiced
this in dream time.
And she was thinking
that it was real life.
She couldn't tell the
difference anymore.
>>CHEUNG: Remarkable, isn't it?
I mean, I love that.
I think it's "Inception,"
or is it "The Matrix?"
I don't know.
These dream-inspired
movies, have you ever
had a dream that was
so real that it's only
when you wake up that you
thought it was a dream?
>>REGINA: Mm-hmm.
Oh, yeah.
All the time.
>>CHEUNG: Incredible.
And that's why I'm so
passionate about this.
And science can't explain it.
>>REGINA: No, they cannot.
>>CHEUNG: But these stories--
>>REGINA: They can't
explain consciousness.
>>CHEUNG: No.
>>REGINA: So there you go.
>>CHEUNG: They're
trying, though.
There's a whole emerging
breed of scientists.
And I actually have worked
quite closely with them
for the last six years.
I support them, do
webinars with them,
co-authored a book
with one of them.
The science of consciousness is
a really exciting emerging area
that science is willing to go
there now and show that science
and spirit are actually--
>>REGINA: Yes, it's starting.
Definitely starting.
>>CHEUNG: It's starting.
>>REGINA: They don't
have it nailed down yet,
but they'll get there over time.
OK, one thing I
want to talk about
is a lot of people
say, A, I don't dream.
They're not dreaming.
They're forgetting.
They're not remembering.
So let's give people
a couple little tips
on how we can start
recalling dreams because--
>>CHEUNG: Absolutely.
Brain scans show that we
dream every single night,
and you have at least
five or six dreams.
You're just not recalling them.
And that could be for a reason.
You're probably very, very
busy, and preoccupied,
and very immersed
in the material
world in your waking life.
You could also be someone with a
very logical, rational mindset.
And if you-- the story you've
told yourself all your life is
that dreams are meaningless--
we're taught that from an early
age, and I'm on a mission
to overthrow that--
of course, you're not
going to remember it
because your reason and your
logic are overriding it.
So the first tip is
to pay more attention
to the possibility of dreams
because like anything in life,
you're dreaming mind is
crying out for your attention.
And where your attention goes,
that's where the reward is.
I predict people watching
this will dream tonight
because they're thinking.
>>REGINA: They'll remember
their dreams, you mean.
>>CHEUNG: Yeah, well,
they will remember it.
Yeah, they will dream, and
they will recall them--
>>REGINA: And
they'll recall them.
>>CHEUNG: --because their
attention during the day
has diverted it.
So you've got to start actually
taking dreams seriously.
I'm sure your
audience will anyway.
But you've also got to start
not just taking them seriously
but to think they have
something of value to teach me.
Your attitude to dream life is
key in whether you recall it.
Number two, are you
getting enough REM sleep?
If you're not having
a good night's sleep
and your bedroom isn't
a very relaxing place,
that's not going to help.
Number three, are you
writing down your dreams?
Even if something comes up
like a bicycle in the morning,
even if it's just a random
word, write it down.
The very act of writing it down
will prompt your dreaming mind
the next morning because
we are creatures of habit.
>>REGINA: You're conditioning
yourself to remember then.
Yes.
>>CHEUNG: The key thing,
though, is the first 90 seconds
when you wake up.
A lot of people do
everything which
is the total opposite
of what they should do.
You've got to keep still.
So if you wake up in
the fetal position,
stay in that position
just for 90 seconds or so.
Keep your eyes closed because
as soon as you wake it up,
you jet it into waking life.
Ideally, also, wake up
without an alarm clock
because an alarm
clock is too brutal.
Try and wake up naturally,
and just stay in that position
because any physical
movement will put you
into the waking world.
Stay in that position and
just see what dreams may come.
If nothing comes, recall the
feeling because that feeling--
we all wake up feeling
slightly different.
Sometimes we're more
happy than others.
That would often be as
a result of the dream.
And write it down.
Again, the action
of writing it down
sends a message to your
dreaming mind, look,
she's taking me seriously.
Oh, I'm excited.
It's like someone who's
been texting you for years
and trying to get
a date, and then--
>>REGINA: Right.
>>CHEUNG: [LAUGHS] --and
then they're noticing me.
I'm excited.
>>REGINA: Right.
>>CHEUNG: I'm going to send an
amazing dream the next night.
During the day also,
do some reality checks.
Ask yourself, is this a dream?
I mean, I don't know.
>>REGINA: Everything you're
saying is I think a thought,
and then you're talking
about that the next second.
So I don't have to
ask you anything.
Go for it.
>>CHEUNG: Another thing--
>>REGINA: That's just
what I was thinking.
>>CHEUNG: --vitamin B6.
There is actually
a study to show.
>>REGINA: Oh.
>>CHEUNG: If you're lacking in
vitamin B6 or the B vitamins,
it's related to
vivid dream recall.
And as I said,
science shows that we
don't know why we dream,
but scientists agree now
that dreams are important for
our mental, emotional, and
psychological health
and well-being.
When they do test and
people are deprived--
I don't think-- I think
they do it on animals.
I hate that, but they do.
It leads to increased mortality.
So dreaming is very important
for our holistic well-being.
And I have a theory
that we don't
know why we sleep
because it's not to rest
because we fidget in our sleep.
And our brains are active in
dreaming, so we're not resting.
I have a theory that
the reason we sleep
is because we
urgently need to dream
because our dreams
are cathartic,
and healing, and regenerating.
I have that theory
that we need--
the reason we sleep is to dream.
>>REGINA: I think you're--
actually, I think you're right,
being someone who dreams a lot
and feeling that, like you
say, that cathartic experience.
Well, like you've worked
through things too.
>>CHEUNG: Yes.
>>REGINA: It's like you're
constantly working through
during dream time and finding
solutions for yourself,
creating all the time.
It's such a refreshing
period of our lives
to be able to
experience all of that
without the resistance of the
physical world time and space.
You don't need permission.
You don't need to have any
kind of external tools.
All the things we
would dream to do
and we would love
to do in real life,
we can do easily in dream time.
>>CHEUNG: It's great fun.
>>REGINA: So it's
very satisfying.
>>CHEUNG: It's this fun movie
in your mind every night,
far better than Netflix,
far more infinite.
>>REGINA: Far.
>>CHEUNG: And it's
all about you,
and it's trying to help and
heal you and show you just
how infinite and
fascinating you are.
>>REGINA: Yes.
>>CHEUNG: I think when people
get older, often they think,
well, that's it.
That's me.
I'm me.
I've stopped it, you know?
You're dreaming mind
is saying, no, do not
go gentle into that good night.
You are incredibly fascinating.
You could have the next
life-changing idea here,
or your life could
change radically.
I'm trying to show you
that you're infinite.
>>REGINA: Let's talk
about that, about finding
your own solutions for one
because a lot of people
want to use dreams practically.
Like I have a problem.
Can you help me find a solution?
So what's the best way
to engage with your self
in terms of finding solutions
and having them presented
in a way you can recognize?
>>CHEUNG: Ask your
dreaming mind before you
go to sleep at night-- now I'm
going to talk about that period
before you go to sleep at
night, that period before,
between waking and sleeping.
It's a magic time
when your brain
goes into the theta state,
which is very impressionable.
The brains of young children
are often in that state,
and that's why negative
messaging given
to young children is so damaging
because it becomes ingrained.
However, twice a day, we have
an incredible opportunity
to change our life and
reprogram our mind for finding
solutions and being positive.
That's just on sleeping
and immediately on waking.
Please treasure those
moments because--
and they're the moments
that are close to dreams.
So before you go
to sleep at night,
just run through your
problem in your mind
and say, dreaming mind,
send me some answers,
send me some direction,
send me some symbols.
And then the next
morning, write them down.
Don't try and decode
straight away.
You're busy.
You've got to get
on with your day.
The best time to decode is
actually later in the day
or before you go to bed at
night because your mind's
on dreaming.
Free associate, Google-- there's
some actually great dream
things online that can help you.
But be a bit wary
though when you do that.
Any dream decoder that has
a definitive explanation
for a symbol, stay away.
>>REGINA: Absolutely.
>>CHEUNG: It's got
to be kept fluid,
and it's got to be open
to your interpretation.
>>REGINA: Well, here's one.
I mean--
>>CHEUNG: Yeah,
these are common--
>>REGINA: Goodness gracious.
What do we have?
>>CHEUNG: Psychological
and spiritual A to Z of--
>>REGINA: This is everything.
It's like, lipstick, living
room, lock, locus, lollipop,
loneliness, loss, lizards,
ghosts, germs, gerbils.
I mean, there is
everything in here.
>>CHEUNG: Freud and
Jung, that, obviously,
the godparents of
dream interpretation.
But also--
>>REGINA: I know
something not in here
that I've dreamed about.
Pig dogs.
Cute little pig dogs.
They're like dogs.
>>CHEUNG: It's a pig and a dog.
There's an animals.
Look under animals.
You could--
>>REGINA: Have they made it and
created a pig dog with carpet
around the center of them?
[LAUGHTER]
>>CHEUNG: That's
the dreaming mind.
See, what your
dreaming mind does,
it allows you to
make connections
like that your rational mind
would not allow you to do--
>>REGINA: Yeah.
Yeah, exactly.
>>CHEUNG: --because the only
thing missing in dreams is
ration, and--
>>REGINA: Rationality.
>>CHEUNG: --reason, and logic.
Yeah.
So set the intention to
dream, ask your dreaming mind
for a solution, and if you
don't get an answer immediately,
doesn't matter.
Don't force.
Have fun with your
dreaming mind.
Ask your dreaming mind
the following night.
As I say, dreams should not
be interpreted in isolation.
They are connected,
like a series,
like a series that
runs and runs.
Your favorite series of all
time on TV, just think of that.
>>REGINA: Just let it run, yeah.
>>CHEUNG: And it will unpick
all the answers over time.
>>REGINA: You just have to
have the desire and intention.
>>CHEUNG: Yes.
>>REGINA: Perfect.
OK, we're almost out of--
we've had so much fun.
I have three pages of
things we never got to here.
But maybe just give us two
of the most prominent themes
people dream around the world.
>>CHEUNG: Well, number one--
actually, did you know there's
a top 10 of dreams or a top 100?
It's typically falling--
>>REGINA: Falling.
>>CHEUNG: --the
sensation of falling,
and especially during the
pandemic, a lot of people
were reporting this dream.
And it simply means you're
feeling a bit unsupported.
However, pay attention
to your emotion
as you fall because
if you're OK,
it suggests you're going--
just go with the flow.
>>REGINA: Go with the flow.
>>CHEUNG: Go with the flow.
And another very, very common
dream-- oh, there's so--
I want to give you a top 10.
>>REGINA: I know this
is terrible to say
just do two or three.
>>CHEUNG: But the
opposite is flying.
I'd love everybody to have--
>>REGINA: I love flying dreams.
>>CHEUNG: --flying
dreams because that's
the most incredible dream.
It shows you need to see the
bigger picture of your life
and not focus on the details.
Look at the bigger picture.
Also, rise above.
If you're going through
difficult times, rise above.
You are not your thoughts.
You're not your emotions.
You have choice.
You can influence your dreams,
your thoughts, your feelings.
You are bigger than them.
That's what it's
trying to show you.
>>REGINA: Any final thoughts?
We're just out of time here.
This has been wonderful.
We could talk for days.
>>CHEUNG: Oh, a Helen
Keller quote comes to mind.
"The best things
in life are unseen.
That's why we close our eyes
when we cry, kiss, and dream."
>>REGINA: On that,
thank you so much.
I thoroughly enjoyed
this conversation.
And even though you had to fly
over from London to do this,
this is quite an energetic
extension on your part.
I really appreciate it.
>>CHEUNG: Excited.
>>REGINA: And I hope we have
a chance to do this again.
>>CHEUNG: Love to.
Thank you for all you are
and do as well, Regina.
>>REGINA: Thank you.
>>CHEUNG: I really
appreciate it.
>>REGINA: I can't wait
to start giving people
"Night Vision" as gifts.
It's my favorite new
gift item right now.
>>CHEUNG: Thank you.
>>REGINA: It's so beautiful.
Thank you.
>>CHEUNG: Thank you.
>>REGINA: Again, this is an
absolutely stunning book,
"Night Vision."
Great gift for your friends.
Also, we just showed you a bit
ago "The Dream Dictionary,"
which has pretty much
everything under the sun that's
ever been dreamed about in it.
You can also learn more
about Theresa's work
by visiting her site
at theresacheung.com.
Until next time, thank
you for joining us here
on "Open Minds."
[THEME MUSIC]